Kinding Sindaw is an NYC-based nonprofit dance theater company composed of indigenous tradition-bearers, Filipino American artists, and educators from all backgrounds founded in 1992. Kinding Sindaw exists to assert, preserve, reclaim, and re-create the traditions of dance, music, martial arts, storytelling, and orature of the indigenous peoples of Mindanao, Southern Philippines.

Founded by a Meranao Bai Labi , Tradition and Culture Bearer, Potri Ranka Manis, Kinding Sindaw recreates the oral traditions of ancestral art forms from Mindanao and is a resident company of La MaMa Experimental Theater Company. Our mission is to educate and enlighten communities about the history and cultures of the indigenous peoples of the Philippines. Through the use of indigenous music, dance and cultural art forms, we serve as an important educational and cultural resource in New York City. We aim to promote the advocacy for indigenous peoples, as well as increase awareness of universal themes that are part of the human experience. The range of our programs also integrates the health benefits of the ancestral movements that we show and teach to our audiences. Through these cultural art forms, we advocate for the preservation of natural resources that are the livelihood of the indigenous peoples. Wellness and healing rituals are also embodied in the repertoire of Kinding Sindaw to increase health and healing awareness of participants and audiences.

Since its founding, Kinding Sindaw has performed and provided cultural workshops and educational programs at numerous venues throughout the city, including full-scale dance dramas: "Irimun o Banag", "Agama Niyog", "Rajah Mangandiri", "Lemlunay", "Parang Sabil", "Sultan Kudarat", "Bembaran", "Pandibulan", “Pag Babalik”, “Tao Marayao”, and most recently, “Mindanao: The Legend of Tabunaway and Mamalu.” Venues include La Mama ETC, Lincoln Center, Carnegie Hall, The Puffin Room, Riverside Church, Mulberry Street Theater, Wave Hill and NYC colleges. In addition to large scale productions, Kinding Sindaw provides music, dance and storytelling workshops at NYC colleges, libraries, public schools, churches, and other community-based venues. By presenting the rich and varied stories of indigenous peoples of southern Philippines, Kinding Sindaw connects with numerous community organizations and groups -- bridging cultures, religions and regions of the world. We serve as a community resource that helps children, youth and adults explore the unique history and traditions of the Philippines, draw parallels to other communities, explore common historic themes, and motivate audiences to learn more about their own history and culture.

Kinding Sindaw’s vast offering of programs have been funded and supported in part by the Reginald Lewis Foundation, the New York City & Company Foundation, the New York Foundation for the Arts Folk Art Fellowship, the New York Department of Cultural Affairs, the Citizens Committee of New York, the New York State Council on the Arts, Lotus Fine Arts Productions, Inc., and individuals from the community.